Firmer guidance on repo config (#303)
NHSDigital/software-engineering-quality-framework: practices/securing-repositories.md

- [SBOM (Software Bill of Materials)](../tools/dependency-scan/README.md) must be generated for your repository content and all the artefacts that are build as part of the CI/CD process.
- Refer to [Quality Checks](../quality-checks.md) for further code security practices.

### Branch protection

- Ability to push to the default branch must be disabled for everyone, including administrators (using the `applies-to-admin` option).
- Pull request <!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->[code reviews](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/defining-the-mergeability-of-pull-requests/about-protected-branches#require-pull-request-reviews-before-merging)<!-- markdown-link-check-enable --> must be required prior to merging a branch.
  - Code reviews must be approved by at least one code owner.
  - You may want to require multiple code owners to review pull requests.
- Commits must be <!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->[signed](https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/defining-the-mergeability-of-pull-requests/about-protected-branches#require-signed-commits)<!-- markdown-link-check-enable --> and verified before merging.

>   - Git treats authentication and identity separately - any authenticated user can impersonate another developer when committing code. This means that even if a junior account is compromised it could have significant consequences, for example impersonating the lead developer in the hope of an easy merge. Only by requiring signing can identity truly be verified.

Reviewer: I think we need to be quite explicit here about what we expect from commit signatures in terms of what the project history is going to look like.  If we are *only* protecting against merge-time spoofing that's fine, and is (I think) workable.  What I think we can't prevent (at least, not at the moment) is ending up with unverifiable commits in the project history.

The problem comes about when someone leaves the organisation. If they've signed their commits with an SSH key that they then delete from their account (which isn't at all unlikely), we lose the ability to verify any commits that were signed with that key.

If we aren't worried about that, it's fine, and the associated processes are nice and easy.  If we think there's a threat there and a need to be able to do a historical audit, I think we would need GPG keys only, *and also* processes around key revocation to let us know what to do with a patch that was signed by a key that got revoked around the time of the commit.

If we want GPG keys at all, I also think there's some work to do around managing revocation certificates.  I can see us very easily getting in the situation of someone losing their laptop with the only copy of a private key on it that we then can't revoke.  Hopefully we'd be protected by the password on the keychain, but again it depends how paranoid we want to be.

Right now our docs have SSH key instructions in them. They're *much* simpler than GPG keys, so if we can keep that, great, but it would be easy for someone less familiar with commit signing to think they give us more assurance than they do.

Oh, and finally we want something about what to do with PRs from external collaborators.  If we're working in the open, we want to be in a position to accept code from people who haven't signed their commits.  I *think* the only reasonable thing to do here is for someone on the project to take ownership of that code by rebasing it and signing it as their own, but that's in conflict with the contribution process described [here](https://github.com/nhsx/open-source-policy/blob/main/open-source-policy.md) and it obscures attribution in a way that we might not want.  Well, I wouldn't want if it was me.

Author: Interesting ... and tricky. As long as this PR isn't in your view making things worse / less clear around commit signing, shall we go ahead and merge this one and raise a dedicated issue & PR for the questions / changes around signing?

Reviewer: I think if we reword slightly to make it clear that we acknowledge that commit signing as we can currently do it doesn't give us a historical audit capability, the rest of it is fine. Something along these lines, maybe?

```suggestion
  - Without a signature, a git commit is just a bunch of plaintext that could have come from anyone.  The email address attached to a commit can be made up.  A compromised junior account can apply the lead developer's email address to a bad commit in the hope of an easy merge to `main`.  When github verifies the signature of a commit before a merge, it tells us that it was committed by who it claims to have been signed by. It may legitimately be uploaded by someone else but as long as github can verify the signature, we can be sure of the authorship.
```

Incidentally, this is another reason we shouldn't want squash rebases...

Author: Great, thanks, I've more or less added that - happy for this to merge now? Thx
